Linux Serial Issue Instructions for IDE 2 (#436)
arduino/docs-content: content/software/ide-v2/tutorials/getting-started/02.ide-v2-uploading-a-sketch/ide-v2-uploading-a-sketch.md

Congratulations, you have now uploaded a sketch to your Arduino board!

### Please Read (Only Linux Users)

> It might happen that when you upload a sketch - after you have selected your board and the serial port -, you get an error **"Error opening serial port ..."**. If you get this error, you need to set serial port permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It might happen that when you upload a sketch - after you have selected your board and the serial port -, you get an error such as **"... Permission denied"**. If you get this error, you need to set serial port permission.
```

Although the different uploading tools of the different boards produce different error messages in this situation, even after quite a bit of testing I still didn't find a single board that produced an error message resembling **"Error opening serial port ..."**. Maybe the error message had that format back in 2008 when this content was written, but I don't find any evidence for it now.

You can see a random example of the common error message here:

https://forum.arduino.cc/t/permission-denied-on-dev-ttyacm0/475568

```text
avrdude: ser_open(): can't open device "/dev/ttyACM0": Permission denied
```

To do this, open your Terminal and type:

```
ls -l /dev/ttyACM*
```

you will get something like:

```
crw-rw---- 1 root dialout 188, 0 5 apr 23.01 ttyACM0
```

The "0" at the end of ACM might be a different number, or multiple entries might be returned. The data we need is "dialout" (is the group owner of the file).

Now we just need to add our user to the group:

```
sudo usermod -a -G dialout <username>
```

where `<username>` is your Linux user name. **You will need to log out and log in again for this change to take effect.**

![Adding user to the group.](assets/Ubuntu_Serial.jpeg)

> This is the procedure to access the serial port from the Arduino Software (IDE) if you get an error.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This sentence is superfluous.
